for many
covert has changed what should be a
joyful experience into a deeply
stressful one
on the labour ward there's an emergency
a woman has been rushed into theatre
there's going to be an emergency
caesarean section yep
it's for failure to progress in labour
failure to progress in labour
and they're in no immediate danger no
but you feel like you've got to
intervene
i've witnessed c-sections before and
there was none of this
and this is all precautionary yes so
this is very new to what we were doing
before
covid to protect ourselves
just in case because she's tested
negative she has
but the tests aren't 100 covid tests can
miss up to one in five
infected patients so because blood and
other fluids are exposed in surgery
the team have to wear high level ppe
so now you're ready to go through these
doors okay
on there yes and we'll see you thank you
thanks for your help
[Music]
this mom has given us permission to film
her surgery
she doesn't speak any english so she's
being supported by her husband's aunt
[Music]
you go keep going give me some more
asset keep going
that's it you're good lovely whoa hold
on
i can see the baby here we are
here oh he's a beautiful size look at
him
so we're just gonna give him a minute so
he gets lots of good blood through the
cord all right
you're right you're right
but things are not right and the baby
hasn't started to breathe
the team has to get him to the pediatric
specialists quickly they rush him
outside to the corridor where the coved
risk is lower
[Music]
um
[Applause]
[Music]
oh my gosh you
are incredible you are all so incredible
she's like completely flattened down
she's done very well
[Music]
congratulations he is so beautiful
oh he's perfect look at him
[Music]
despite the fact you're having to wear
ppe and you can't hear and you feel
restricted and there's much more
movement and things have radically
changed
the way that you guys react is just i
mean i've got better ass
learning
it's all new isn't it i think this is us
for the time being isn't it
this is the new way of of living and
working
thank you so much thank you so so much
for having us i'm
i'm so appreciative i really am grateful